IMAGE QUALITY ANNOTATION - ORGANIZER NOTES

Three manually assigned groups
Put your selected images in these folders under the website:
  annotation/groups/group-01/
  annotation/groups/group-02/
  annotation/groups/group-03/

Each group may contain any number of images, including zero. There is no fixed
quota, automatic split or imposed overlap. Put an identical copy in multiple
folders wherever you want overlap. Content hashes identify the same image across
groups even when renamed. Duplicate copies within a group are shown only once.
Visually identical re-encoded images require manual deduplication.

Refresh after adding/removing images
From the website root:
  python annotation/prepare_dataset.py

A static site cannot enumerate server folders itself. This command scans the
three folders and refreshes the browser's image list. No counts or code edits
are required. Redeploy generated data with the website for hosted changes.
Files are ordered by their path within the group. Nested folders are scanned.
Supported: JPG, JPEG, PNG, WebP, GIF and BMP, case insensitive. Check that animated
GIFs are suitable for your still-image task.

The page displays actual counts. Empty groups cannot be started. Navigation,
progress, completion and exports use the selected group's length. Direct links:
  /annotation/?group=group-01
  /annotation/?group=group-02
  /annotation/?group=group-03

Generated data
The script copies images under annotation/data/images with neutral names and
generates annotation/data/dataset.json. Original source images are unchanged.
Removing an image from a group removes it from the refreshed list. Older generated
copies remain on disk but are no longer displayed unless still assigned.
The private organizer report goes into ../annotation-organizer relative to the
website root. It records source paths, actual counts and overlap. There is no
automatic assignment of people or internal/external roles. Assign group links
and anonymous annotator codes yourself. Multiple people can label a group with
different codes. Additional people mean additional independent judgments.

Original group folders inside the site may be accessible if deployed. To keep
source folders outside the site, use an external parent folder with group-01,
group-02 and group-03, and pass --source:
  python annotation/prepare_dataset.py --source "C:\path\to\groups" --private-report-dir "C:\path\outside-site\organizer" --manifest "C:\path\to\manifest.csv"

Repeat --manifest for multiple collector manifests. SHA-256 matching preserves
attribution after renames. Edited/re-encoded images need separate attribution.
annotation/data/ATTRIBUTION.csv retains known attribution on later refreshes
without manifest arguments. Resolve missing attribution before public sharing.

Finalize the study
Edit study.json to set contact, return_instructions, final label definitions and
guidelines_version. Add at least one reviewed image example per label under
annotation/examples. Example study.json entry (in the examples array):
  {"src":"examples/example-01.jpg","explanation":"Lens contamination and Usable: two droplets affect the edge while the main scene stays clear."}
Retain example attributions and keep examples outside the evaluation groups.
The current written examples are illustrative, not reviewed photo examples.

Run the refresh command after changing guidelines: the dataset embeds a frozen
study.json snapshot. Identical refreshes keep the study ID and saved progress.
Changes to images, group membership, order or guidelines create a new study ID,
so old answers are not silently reused on a different task. Finalize before
students start; keep exported results before revising an active study.

Preview locally
From the website root:
  python -m http.server 8000 --bind 127.0.0.1
Open http://127.0.0.1:8000/annotation/
Use a web server, not a double-clicked HTML file. The refresh command does not
deploy the site. This static interface has no backend, authentication or automatic
submission. Group links are assignments, not access controls.

Student workflow (also on the page)
1. Read the guide and reviewed examples. Enter the assigned anonymous code and
   select the assigned group.
2. Inspect each image; enlarge when helpful. Select every visible artifact, or
   explicitly choose no listed artifact / unsure.
3. Apply all visible labels: Physical Obstruction, Exposure Fault, Lens
   Contamination, Optical/Motion Blur, and Lens Fog / Condensation. Even small
   defects count. Use no listed artifact / unsure when appropriate.
4. Selections save automatically as you click. Next moves to the next image.
   Previous and the image selector let you review answers.
5. Click Save results at any time to download all selections so far as JSON. Progress is also saved
   in the same browser when storage works. Resume with the same code/group.
   CSV is an optional readable copy; downloaded files cannot be imported.
6. Send the JSON through the organizer's specified contact/channel. Downloading
   does not submit anything automatically.

Output and analysis
JSON and CSV include filename, the original name from that image's group folder,
alongside the stable image ID. This metadata does not reset existing progress.
JSON stores study, annotator, group and stable image IDs. Each answer contains
a labels array, artifact_judgment, status and
approximate active_seconds. CSV uses | between multiple labels. Drafts, pending
items are not negative labels. JSON is the results format.
Join dataset_id + image_id across DIFFERENT annotator codes for agreement.
Multiple exports by one person are versions, not additional votes. The private
report lists images shared by any groups and those shared by all three. Keep
individual judgments; no automatic consensus/ground-truth labels are produced.
Time an internal pilot to estimate the workload for your chosen group sizes.

Assignment requirements
Section 3.2 of ARI410-510_Project_Phase1a_Group.pdf permits a custom HTML tool with
one item at a time, clean labels, structured output, usage instructions, testing
and an AI-development record. Section 3.1 requires examples per label and contact.
Section 3.3 requires multiply annotated items and an internal annotator; choose
your overlap and assignments accordingly. The PDF suggests contacting the
instructor about custom tools; no external message has been sent. Dataset source,
sampling/licensing documentation, photo examples and the real-image pilot remain
organizer tasks.

Tests
  python -m unittest discover -s annotation -p test_prepare_dataset.py -v
  python annotation/test_browser.py --artifacts "C:\path\outside-site\test-results"
Browser tests require Playwright for Python and installed Chrome. Synthetic
fixtures check multiple labels, browser drafts/resume, exports, failed image loads,
unequal group lengths, empty groups, mobile width and unavailable browser storage.
Test the full workflow with real images before inviting students.

AI-assisted development record
The user originally requested overlapping 100-image groups with multiple labels
on the existing website, following section 3.2. Codex read the PDF and built a
custom HTML/CSS/JavaScript interface and Python preparation tool with tests.
The user then specified exactly three manually populated folders, with no fixed
image count. The automatic grouping plan was removed; the tool now preserves
folder membership and user-controlled overlap, with dynamic counts in the UI.
No AI ground-truth labels were assigned. No deployment was performed.

Study version 2.0 uses the final five broader artifact labels, including under-
exposure and optical defocus. Usability and unavailable-image annotation controls
were removed. This generates a new study ID; earlier exports/answers remain
associated with the earlier study and are not silently relabeled.
